docs/rendering-images.md, before:

# Rendering images

## Before you continue

You will want to add `THUMBNAIL_PRESERVE_FORMAT = True` to your Django settings.
By default, if you do not specify an output format, the Sorl thumbnail backend will generate a JPEG file,
regardless of your source format.

## Using `{% image %}`

To render images in your template, use the `{% image %}` template tag from the `uncms_images` library.
The simplest example is this:

```
{% load uncms_images %}
{% image some_file_object width=600 %}
```
It will render an image from your [media library](media-library.md) in multiple sizes for different devices using `srcset`,
and also in WebP format for browsers that support it.

You must specify an UnCMS File object as an argument, and at least one of these keyword arguments:

* `width`, an integer:
the width to thumbnail the image to.
* `height`, an integer:
the height to thumbnail the image to.
If you specify both `width` and `height`, the image will be cropped to the proper aspect ratio.

There are several additional options that you may want to use:

* `alt_text`, a string:
[textual description of the image](https://www.deque.com/blog/great-alt-text-introduction/) to display to screen readers.
This will default to the `alt_text` field of the `File`, or the empty string if that is not present.
If an explicit empty string (`''`) has been specified, it will be the empty string, and will not fall back to the `alt_text` for the image.
To improve the experience for screen readers, you should use an explicit empty string for images that are purely decorative.
* `webp`, boolean:
whether to output WebP versions of the image.
This is a Web-optimised format supported by almost all browsers and gives substantial size reductions over PNG and JPEG.
Defaults to `True`.
* `lazy`, boolean:
whether to use `loading="lazy"` on the rendered image.
You almost always want to use this option,
because it stops browsers loading off-screen images,
which is good for everyone's data plan.
Defaults to `True`.
* `aspect`, boolean:
whether to output an inline `style` with the appropriate `aspect-ratio` for this image.
You may want to specify `False` for this value if you have, e.g., an absolutely-positioned image designed to spread across the entire region of an element which will have a non-predictable aspect ratio
(such as a background image on an element).
You will also need to specify `False` if you are using a strict [Content Security Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP) which forbids inline styles.
* `quality`, integer:
quality of the resized image.
This defaults to `None`, which will use Sorl's default settings for the image type
(which itself can be overridden by the `THUMBNAIL_QUALITY` Django setting).
* `colorspace`, string:
the colourspace to use for this image.
If you are displaying images in monochrome on your site,
you can obtain substantial image size reductions by specifying `GRAY` for this option,
rather than (e.g.) greyscaling them with CSS.
This defaults to `auto`, which will use the original colourspace for the image.
* `sizes`: the `sizes` attribute for the `<source>` tags. Defaults to `100vw`.

## How it works

First, depending on the width and/or height you have requested,
an initial thumbnail size is calculated, along with a generated signed URL containing thumbnailing parameters.
When visited, this URL thumbnails the image, and 302-redirects the user agent to the thumbnail's static file.

Secondly, for every value in the `UNCMS['IMAGE_WIDTHS']` values,
a URL is generated for each of the formats that will be output into a `<source>`,
using the same out-of-initial-request thumbnailing as above.

The trick here is that resizing images - which is usually a very expensive operation - is performed outside the initial request/response cycle.
Rendering images has _very little_ impact on time-to-first-byte performance of your page;
the cost of rendering the image tag is that of a few `reverse` calls and a template render.
This approach was directly inspired by the now-unmaintained [django-lazy-image](https://github.com/dan-gamble/django-lazy-image) package.

## Customising image rendering

Other than the many options for `{% image %}`,
you can customise image rendering either with CSS
(targeting sensible [BEM class names](https://getbem.com/naming/)),
or by overriding the default image rendering template.

### Customising with CSS

You may target the following selectors in CSS:

* `.image`: the opening `<picture>` tag
* `.image__image`: the `<img>` tag inside the above

For example, you may want to add a light grey background colour to all images,
as a placeholder indication for people on slow Internet connections who had not loaded it yet.
The following CSS will work fine:

```
.image {
  background-color: #eee;
}
```

If you are integrating UnCMS into an already-existing project,
it may be that the class name `image` is already taken.
Alternatively, you may just want to use a different class prefix for your own, because you are special.
If you do, you may override the `IMAGE_CLASS_PREFIX` option in the settings.

For example, the following will result in the selectors mentioned above being `.picture` and `.picture__image`.

```
UNCMS = {
    # your other options here...
    'IMAGE_CLASS_PREFIX': 'picture',
}
```

### Customising the template

The default template used to render images can be specified in the `IMAGE_TEMPLATE` [configuration option](configuration.md).
Instead of copying this template into your project and changing the bits you need to change,
you may want to change this configuration option,
and add a template of your own to your project which extends `media/multi_format_image.html`.
This template provides a huge number of blocks which you can override to add custom elements,
or classes and attributes to the ones which already exist.

* `before_picture_tag`: empty extension block before the opening `<picture>` tag
* `picture_tag_classes`: classes for the `<picture>` tag
* `extra_picture_tag_classes`: empty extension block for _extra_ picture tag classes
* `inside_picture_tag_top` empty extension block immediately after the opening `<picture>` tag
* `img_tag_classes`: all HTML classes for the `<img>` tag (defaults to `"image"`)
* `extra_img_tag_classes` empty extension block for adding _extra_ classes to the `<img>` tag
* `extra_img_tag_attributes`: empty extension block for adding extra attributes to the `<img>` tag
* `img_tag_lazy_attribute`: if lazy loading has been requested, the attribute `loading="lazy"` on the `<img>` tag, otherwise empty
* `img_tag_style_attribute`: the `style` attribute for the `img` tag, including the attribute name
* `inside_picture_tag_bottom`: empty extension block before the closing `<picture>` tag
* `after_picture_tag`: empty extension block after the closing `<picture>` tag

For example, you might not like (for whatever reason) the fact that images always request that browsers load them lazily by default,
and do not want to specify `lazy=False` every time you use `{% image %}`.
In this case, you would want an `UNCMS` configuration dictionary that looked like this:

```
UNCMS = {
    # your other options here...
    'IMAGE_TEMPLATE': 'media/never_lazy.html',
}
```

And in your `media/never_lazy.html`, you could have this:

```
{% extends 'media/multi_format_image.html' %}
{% block img_tag_lazy_attribute %}{% endblock %}
```

This will remove `loading="lazy"` regardless of the value specified for the `lazy` argument.

Commit message:

Remove the "add random sizes" element of render_multiformat_image.
This *forces* setting the "sizes" attribute of a <picture>, which is really
not for the lazy. Instead, just output the original format and WebP. That
will do. If you want to display different images at different breakpoints,
use it more than once and `display: none` or `display: block` them with
CSS.

Browsers made a mistake requiring "sizes" when width descriptors are given,
because the browser knows the width an image needs to be rendered at! It
can't prefetch it before it has loaded the CSS, but that is a tiny
optimisation. The downside of requiring "sizes" is that you need to
keep your "sizes" in your HTML template and your media queries in CSS
in sync, and ain't nobody got time for that.

docs/rendering-images.md, after:

# Rendering images

## Before you continue

You will want to add `THUMBNAIL_PRESERVE_FORMAT = True` to your Django settings.
By default, if you do not specify an output format, the Sorl thumbnail backend will generate a JPEG file,
regardless of your source format.

## Using `{% image %}`

To render images in your template, use the `{% image %}` template tag from the `uncms_images` library.
The simplest example is this:

```
{% load uncms_images %}
{% image some_file_object width=600 %}
```
This will render your image in its original format at 600 pixels wide (height calculated automatically),
and also in WebP format for browsers that support it.
It will add `aspect-ratio` inline CSS to ensure that the image is pre-sized appropriately by browsers,
and will add the `loading="lazy"` attribute so that most browsers will not render it until it is close to the viewport.

You must specify an UnCMS File object as an argument, and at least one of these keyword arguments:

* `width`, an integer:
the width to thumbnail the image to.
* `height`, an integer:
the height to thumbnail the image to.
If you specify both `width` and `height`, the image will be cropped to the proper aspect ratio.

There are several additional options that you may want to use:

* `alt_text`, a string:
[textual description of the image](https://www.deque.com/blog/great-alt-text-introduction/) to display to screen readers.
This will default to the `alt_text` field of the `File`, or the empty string if that is not present.
If an explicit empty string (`''`) has been specified, it will be the empty string, and will not fall back to the `alt_text` for the image.
To improve the experience for screen readers, you should use an explicit empty string for images that are purely decorative.
* `lazy`, boolean:
whether to use `loading="lazy"` on the rendered image.
You almost always want to use this option,
because it stops browsers loading off-screen images,
which is good for everyone's data plan.
Defaults to `True`.
* `aspect`, boolean:
whether to output an inline `style` with the appropriate `aspect-ratio` for this image.
You may want to specify `False` for this value if you have, e.g., an absolutely-positioned image designed to spread across the entire region of an element which will have a non-predictable aspect ratio
(such as a background image on an element).
You will also need to specify `False` if you are using a strict [Content Security Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP) which forbids inline styles.
* `quality`, integer:
quality of the resized image.
This defaults to `None`, which will use Sorl's default settings for the image type
(which itself can be overridden by the `THUMBNAIL_QUALITY` Django setting).
* `colorspace`, string:
the colourspace to use for this image.
If you are displaying images in monochrome on your site,
you can obtain substantial image size reductions by specifying `GRAY` for this option,
rather than (e.g.) greyscaling them with CSS.
This defaults to `auto`, which will use the original colourspace for the image.

## How it works

Depending on the width and/or height you have requested,
an initial thumbnail size is calculated, along with a generated signed URL containing thumbnailing parameters.
When visited, this URL thumbnails the image, and 302-redirects the user agent to the thumbnail's static file.

The trick here is that resizing images - which is usually a very expensive operation - is performed outside the initial request/response cycle.
Rendering images has _very little_ impact on time-to-first-byte performance of your page;
the cost of rendering the image tag is that of a few `reverse` calls and a template render.
This approach was directly inspired by the now-unmaintained [django-lazy-image](https://github.com/dan-gamble/django-lazy-image) package.

## Customising image rendering

Other than the many options for `{% image %}`,
you can customise image rendering either with CSS
(targeting sensible [BEM class names](https://getbem.com/naming/)),
or by overriding the default image rendering template.

### Customising with CSS

You may target the following selectors in CSS:

* `.image`: the opening `<picture>` tag
* `.image__image`: the `<img>` tag inside the above

For example, you may want to add a light grey background colour to all images,
as a placeholder indication for people on slow Internet connections who had not loaded it yet.
The following CSS will work fine:

```
.image {
  background-color: #eee;
}
```

If you are integrating UnCMS into an already-existing project,
it may be that the class name `image` is already taken.
Alternatively, you may just want to use a different class prefix for your own, because you are special.
If you do, you may override the `IMAGE_CLASS_PREFIX` option in the settings.

For example, the following will result in the selectors mentioned above being `.picture` and `.picture__image`.

```
UNCMS = {
    # your other options here...
    'IMAGE_CLASS_PREFIX': 'picture',
}
```

### Customising the template

The default template used to render images can be specified in the `IMAGE_TEMPLATE` [configuration option](configuration.md).
Instead of copying this template into your project and changing the bits you need to change,
you may want to change this configuration option,
and add a template of your own to your project which extends `media/multi_format_image.html`.
This template provides a huge number of blocks which you can override to add custom elements,
or classes and attributes to the ones which already exist.

* `before_picture_tag`: empty extension block before the opening `<picture>` tag
* `picture_tag_classes`: classes for the `<picture>` tag
* `extra_picture_tag_classes`: empty extension block for _extra_ picture tag classes
* `inside_picture_tag_top` empty extension block immediately after the opening `<picture>` tag
* `img_tag_classes`: all HTML classes for the `<img>` tag (defaults to `"image"`)
* `extra_img_tag_classes` empty extension block for adding _extra_ classes to the `<img>` tag
* `extra_img_tag_attributes`: empty extension block for adding extra attributes to the `<img>` tag
* `img_tag_lazy_attribute`: if lazy loading has been requested, the attribute `loading="lazy"` on the `<img>` tag, otherwise empty
* `img_tag_style_attribute`: the `style` attribute for the `img` tag, including the attribute name
* `inside_picture_tag_bottom`: empty extension block before the closing `<picture>` tag
* `after_picture_tag`: empty extension block after the closing `<picture>` tag

For example, you might not like (for whatever reason) the fact that images always request that browsers load them lazily by default,
and do not want to specify `lazy=False` every time you use `{% image %}`.
In this case, you would want an `UNCMS` configuration dictionary that looked like this:

```
UNCMS = {
    # your other options here...
    'IMAGE_TEMPLATE': 'media/never_lazy.html',
}
```

And in your `media/never_lazy.html`, you could have this:

```
{% extends 'media/multi_format_image.html' %}
{% block img_tag_lazy_attribute %}{% endblock %}
```

This will remove `loading="lazy"` regardless of the value specified for the `lazy` argument.
