docs/template-tags.md, before:

# Template tags

A collection of template tags are included with the pages module, mostly for the purposes of simplifying SEO.

## Page metadata tags

### TL;DR

The `<head>` of your document should look like this:

```
{% load uncms_pages %}
<meta name="robots" content="{% meta_robots %}">
<meta name="description" content="{% meta_description %}">

<meta property="og:title" content="{% og_title %}">
<meta property="og:url" content="{% canonical_url %}">
<meta property="og:type" content="website">
<meta property="og:description" content="{% og_description %}">
<meta property="og:image" content="{% og_image %}">

<meta name="twitter:card" content="{% twitter_card %}" />
<meta name="twitter:title" content="{% twitter_title %}" />
<meta name="twitter:description" content="{% twitter_description %}" />
<meta name="twitter:image" content="{% twitter_image %}" />

<link rel="canonical" href="{% canonical_url %}" />

<title>{% block title %}{% title %}{% endblock %}</title>
```

Or,
much more simply,
if you are happy with the way UnCMS behaves by default,
you can include `pages/head_meta.html` which will do this all for you:

```
{% include 'pages/head_meta.html' %}
```

### `{% title %}`

* **Load with:** `{% load uncms_pages %}`
* **[Jinja2](using-jinja2.md) equivalent:** `{{ render_title() }}`

Renders, in this order of priority:

1. The title of the current object, or
2. The title of the current page, or
3. The title of the home page.

```
<title>{% title %}</title>
```

In the first case, it works by simply checking the template context for a key called `title`, and outputs that if it is present
(our [helper views](helpers.md) `PageDetailMixin` and `PageDetailView` will place it there).
As such, you can override the title by setting a context variable called `title`:

```
{% with title = "foo" %}
  {% title %}
{% endwith %}
```

By default this will be rendered with the template `pages/title.html`.
You can override this template if, e.g., you wanted to place the name of your site into every `<title>` tag.

### `{% meta_description %}`

* **Load with:** `{% load uncms_pages %}`
* **[Jinja2](using-jinja2.md) equivalent:** `{{ get_meta_description() }}`

Renders the content of the meta description tag for the current page:

```
<meta name="description" value="{% meta_description %}">
```

You can override the meta description by setting a context variable called `meta_description`.

```
{% with meta_description='foo' %}
  <meta name="description" content="{% meta_description %}">
{% endwith %}
```
You might want to set this in, e.g. the `get_context_data` method of a class-based view to set a default for models that do not inherit from `SearchMetaBase`.

### `{% meta_robots %}`

* **Load with:** `{% load uncms_pages %}`
* **[Jinja2](using-jinja2.md) equivalent:** `{{ get_meta_robots() }}`


Renders the content of the meta robots tag for the current page:

```
<meta name="robots" content="{% meta_robots %}">
```

You can override the meta robots by setting boolean context variables called
`robots_index`, `robots_archive` and `robots_follow`:

```
{% with robots_follow=True %}
  {% meta_robots }}
{% endwith %}
```

You can also provide the meta robots as three boolean arguments to this
tag in the order 'index', 'follow' and 'archive':

```
{% meta_robots True True True %}
```

## Navigation functions

### `{% navigation pages [section] %}`

* **Load with:** `{% load uncms_pages %}`

Renders the site navigation for the given set of pages.

```
{% load pages %}
<nav>
  {% render_navigation pages.homepage.navigation %}
</nav>
```

See [rendering navigation](rendering-navigation.md) for more.


### `render_breadcrumbs(page=None, extended=False)`

Renders the breadcrumbs trail for the current page:

```
{{ render_breadcrumbs() }}
```

This will use the template `pages/breadcrumbs.html`, which you will probably want to override in your project.

To override and extend the breadcrumb trail within page applications, add the `extended` flag to the tag and add your own breadcrumbs underneath:

```
{{ render_breadcrumbs(extended=1) }}
```

### `get_page_url(page, view_func=None, *args, **kwargs)`

Resolves the URL of a route defined in a page's `urlconf`, passing positional and/or keyword arguments to the resolver.
It is a thin wrapper around `Page.reverse`.

```
{{ get_page_url(pages.current, 'article_detail', slug=article.slug) }}
```

### `{% canonical_url %}`

* **Load with:** `{% load uncms_pages %}`
* **[Jinja2](using-jinja2.md) equivalent:** `{{ get_canonical_url() }}`

Returns the canonical URL for the currently viewed URL.
It merely ensures that any query string junk does not cause a page to be indexed more than once by search engines.

## OpenGraph (Facebook and others) functions
* **Load with:** `{% load uncms_pages %}`
* **[Jinja2](using-jinja2.md) equivalent:** `{{ get_og_title() }}`, `{{ get_og_image() }}`, `{{ get_og_description() }}`


`{% og_title %}`, `{% og_description %}` and `{% og_image %}` render the OpenGraph title, description, and image for the current object.

You will want to use them like so:

```
<meta property="og:title" content="{% og_title %}">
{# note we just use canonical_url for this :) #}
<meta property="og:url" content="{% canonical_url %}">
<meta property="og:type" content="website">
<meta property="og:description" content="{% og_description %}">
<meta property="og:image" content="{% og_image %}">
```

`{% og_title %}` is smart enough to fall back to the current object's browser title override or `title` attribute.

`{% og_image %}` checks the OpenGraph image field of the current object, then falls back to the `image`, `photo` and `logo` field on the current object, in that order.

## Twitter card functions

`{% twitter_card %}`, `{% twitter_description %}` and `{% twitter_image %}` render the current Twitter card information for the current object. You will want to use them like so:

```
<!-- Twitter card data -->
<meta name="twitter:card" content="{% twitter_card %}" />
<meta name="twitter:title" content="{% twitter_title %}" />
<meta name="twitter:description" content="{% twitter_description %}" />
<meta name="twitter:image" content="{% twitter_image %}" />
```

If no Twitter card information is set on the current object, Twitter will look at the OpenGraph fields above.

Commit message:

Add Jinja2 equivalent of `pages/head_meta.html`.

docs/template-tags.md, after:

# Template tags

A collection of template tags are included with the pages module, mostly for the purposes of simplifying SEO.

## Page metadata tags

### TL;DR

The `<head>` of your document should look like this:

```
{% load uncms_pages %}
<meta name="robots" content="{% meta_robots %}">
<meta name="description" content="{% meta_description %}">

<meta property="og:title" content="{% og_title %}">
<meta property="og:url" content="{% canonical_url %}">
<meta property="og:type" content="website">
<meta property="og:description" content="{% og_description %}">
<meta property="og:image" content="{% og_image %}">

<meta name="twitter:card" content="{% twitter_card %}" />
<meta name="twitter:title" content="{% twitter_title %}" />
<meta name="twitter:description" content="{% twitter_description %}" />
<meta name="twitter:image" content="{% twitter_image %}" />

<link rel="canonical" href="{% canonical_url %}" />

<title>{% block title %}{% title %}{% endblock %}</title>
```

Or,
much more simply,
if you are happy with the way UnCMS behaves by default,
you can include `pages/head_meta.html` which will do this all for you:

```
{% include 'pages/head_meta.html' %}
```

Or for [Jinja2](using-jinja2.md):

```
{% include 'pages/head_meta.jinja2' %}
```

### `{% title %}`

* **Load with:** `{% load uncms_pages %}`
* **[Jinja2](using-jinja2.md) equivalent:** `{{ render_title() }}`

Renders, in this order of priority:

1. The title of the current object, or
2. The title of the current page, or
3. The title of the home page.

```
<title>{% title %}</title>
```

In the first case, it works by simply checking the template context for a key called `title`, and outputs that if it is present
(our [helper views](helpers.md) `PageDetailMixin` and `PageDetailView` will place it there).
As such, you can override the title by setting a context variable called `title`:

```
{% with title = "foo" %}
  {% title %}
{% endwith %}
```

By default this will be rendered with the template `pages/title.html`.
You can override this template if, e.g., you wanted to place the name of your site into every `<title>` tag.

### `{% meta_description %}`

* **Load with:** `{% load uncms_pages %}`
* **[Jinja2](using-jinja2.md) equivalent:** `{{ get_meta_description() }}`

Renders the content of the meta description tag for the current page:

```
<meta name="description" value="{% meta_description %}">
```

You can override the meta description by setting a context variable called `meta_description`.

```
{% with meta_description='foo' %}
  <meta name="description" content="{% meta_description %}">
{% endwith %}
```
You might want to set this in, e.g. the `get_context_data` method of a class-based view to set a default for models that do not inherit from `SearchMetaBase`.

### `{% meta_robots %}`

* **Load with:** `{% load uncms_pages %}`
* **[Jinja2](using-jinja2.md) equivalent:** `{{ get_meta_robots() }}`


Renders the content of the meta robots tag for the current page:

```
<meta name="robots" content="{% meta_robots %}">
```

You can override the meta robots by setting boolean context variables called
`robots_index`, `robots_archive` and `robots_follow`:

```
{% with robots_follow=True %}
  {% meta_robots }}
{% endwith %}
```

You can also provide the meta robots as three boolean arguments to this
tag in the order 'index', 'follow' and 'archive':

```
{% meta_robots True True True %}
```

## Navigation functions

### `{% navigation pages [section] %}`

* **Load with:** `{% load uncms_pages %}`

Renders the site navigation for the given set of pages.

```
{% load pages %}
<nav>
  {% render_navigation pages.homepage.navigation %}
</nav>
```

See [rendering navigation](rendering-navigation.md) for more.


### `render_breadcrumbs(page=None, extended=False)`

Renders the breadcrumbs trail for the current page:

```
{{ render_breadcrumbs() }}
```

This will use the template `pages/breadcrumbs.html`, which you will probably want to override in your project.

To override and extend the breadcrumb trail within page applications, add the `extended` flag to the tag and add your own breadcrumbs underneath:

```
{{ render_breadcrumbs(extended=1) }}
```

### `get_page_url(page, view_func=None, *args, **kwargs)`

Resolves the URL of a route defined in a page's `urlconf`, passing positional and/or keyword arguments to the resolver.
It is a thin wrapper around `Page.reverse`.

```
{{ get_page_url(pages.current, 'article_detail', slug=article.slug) }}
```

### `{% canonical_url %}`

* **Load with:** `{% load uncms_pages %}`
* **[Jinja2](using-jinja2.md) equivalent:** `{{ get_canonical_url() }}`

Returns the canonical URL for the currently viewed URL.
It merely ensures that any query string junk does not cause a page to be indexed more than once by search engines.

## OpenGraph (Facebook and others) functions
* **Load with:** `{% load uncms_pages %}`
* **[Jinja2](using-jinja2.md) equivalent:** `{{ get_og_title() }}`, `{{ get_og_image() }}`, `{{ get_og_description() }}`


`{% og_title %}`, `{% og_description %}` and `{% og_image %}` render the OpenGraph title, description, and image for the current object.

You will want to use them like so:

```
<meta property="og:title" content="{% og_title %}">
{# note we just use canonical_url for this :) #}
<meta property="og:url" content="{% canonical_url %}">
<meta property="og:type" content="website">
<meta property="og:description" content="{% og_description %}">
<meta property="og:image" content="{% og_image %}">
```

`{% og_title %}` is smart enough to fall back to the current object's browser title override or `title` attribute.

`{% og_image %}` checks the OpenGraph image field of the current object, then falls back to the `image`, `photo` and `logo` field on the current object, in that order.

## Twitter card functions

`{% twitter_card %}`, `{% twitter_description %}` and `{% twitter_image %}` render the current Twitter card information for the current object. You will want to use them like so:

```
<!-- Twitter card data -->
<meta name="twitter:card" content="{% twitter_card %}" />
<meta name="twitter:title" content="{% twitter_title %}" />
<meta name="twitter:description" content="{% twitter_description %}" />
<meta name="twitter:image" content="{% twitter_image %}" />
```

If no Twitter card information is set on the current object, Twitter will look at the OpenGraph fields above.
